The Joe Rogan experience.
While we live in a crazy age, it's fun, but stressful, stressful.
Well, and for your study for the study of human life extension.
And anti-aging when you look at the stresses that are
completely, they're very novel to the human experience,
like the stresses of social media,
the stresses of cell phone use the stresses of blue light,
like staring at screens at night. Like all that stuff.
How much of an effect do you think that's having on people?
And have we even quantified that yet?
Uh, we are quantifying it and it's having a real negative effect.
Mental health issues is going to be the medical problem of the 21st century.
No question. There are companies that are doing these, uh,
remote video chats with a psychologist or psychiatrist. They are booming.
These are the next billion dollar companies. Yeah. Oh, you want to,
anyone want to make money, look into that,
but we are living in a stressful world and part of it's because we don't have
much else to worry about. We've gotten rid of all the major worries wolves.
Yeah. We don't have to. We went out on the Savannah anymore.
We're not going to get picked off by a cheater. Well, a lion probably,
but we built this world. We, you know, 6 million years ago,
the first hominid ape-like thing was up in the tree,
walking around actually upright, which is interesting, right?
It wasn't swinging from the branches that picked up a stick.
That animal picked up a stick.
And that was put us on this treadmill where we are today,
innovation after innovation tool, after tool, after tool. But in response,
our bodies have deteriorated. We only build our bodies as much as we need to.
So if we've got tools and we can throw rocks, we don't need a lot of muscles.
And in fact,
our head just expanded so we could build better tools faster and faster.
And you know, the culmination of that is an iPhone,
but where are we going to be in another hundred thousand years?
It's really scary because this treadmill, we cannot get off.
It there's no going back. There's no stationary.
Cause we've got problems that we've already created from our own technology that
we have to solve with better technology.
So that we're a species that once we've picked up that stick we're on this path
and those things that got us here,
there are actually four traits that I can think of that got us here that make us
different from all other animals. Those are our, not just our, what got us here.
They're our biggest threat. And,
but we also have to use them to get us out of this problem.
And one of those.
Well, let's see. So the first one is toolmaking okay. No big deal.
We've got hands that have evolved us, throw rocks shoes. Um,
our feet actually a built for shoes.
Imagine that they're only jeans that we've in feet are built for shoes. Yeah.
Yeah. Our feet actually are.
We've had shoes for so many years that we've got feet. That fit shoes.
I've seen what it looks like when those guys in the Amazon walk around with no
feet and they develop these hand like feet.
Oh, they.
Can pick up stuff. Oh no, you have to see this.
Because what happens is when they walk around barefoot in the dirt for so long,
their toes develop the ability to grip. So they're gripping the ground.
So their toes,
instead of being like a person wear shoes all the time where the toes are all
connected, they splay out like hands. That's very.
Strange. I want, I want that.
My friend,
Steve Rinella was in Guyana and he was hanging out with his tribe and they
live, they live in the forest and like, look at their feet.
That's incredible. Maybe that's the way we should.
It was that.
So the way I think people lived when they lived in the jungle forever,
this is the Hora. How do you say that? Horani um,
this is the Ecuadorian rainforest. These people, this, um,
when you look at their feet, I think it's soft ground.
And they're walking around in dirt all the time and they,
their feet splay out and they develop the ability to like push off
of things with their feet. So it's,
it's the exact opposite of the way human beings develop bunions or
they smush their feet into like these shoes that don't really fit
human feet.
And then they get these weird Bunyan's where their toes are pointed towards the
other toes. This is the opposite. They spread out like fingers.
Yeah. Well we can trace the genetics of this. W we become a very weak species.
If you get into a fight with, uh, with, you know, let's say a Chimp,
let's say a.
House cat, even.
That will bite you off a dog, your face off, right. We we're at their mercy,
but even the strongest human cannot beat your average Chimp or any Chimp that
pathetic. So what, we're basically a lollipop,
physique where a stick with a big head,
but that's because we've had these tools for so many years, we've had fire.
Even our guts have shrunken down. We don't have long intestine.
So he put us out in the wild we're screwed. We can no longer exist in the wild.
Yeah. But I live in Boston. I'm out there in the winter for maybe 10 minutes.
I'm dead. So that's who we are. Now.
We are this pathetic physical species that has built tools that are
goddess here, but are actually messing with our minds. The, the blue light,
the chairs, we sit in the food, we eat all the time.
These have made us a weakest species.
So what I'm hoping to do with my research and,
and some companies are building is to get us out of that problem and engineer
our way out and also make wellness and health a thing that people actually can
take care of themselves.
And what are the steps that there's one thing that people can do.
And exercise is a good one, right? Because of the fact that we live,
these sedentary lifestyles and most of the time people are sitting down and
there's a lot of time spent standing at screens.
How important do you think it is to get out and do something?
And what kind of an effect does that have?
Like what kind of quantifiable effect does that have on life extension? Oh,
it's very.
We're clear. There, there are two things you can do, uh,
that are well known to extend your lifespan. And when I say extend lifespan,
I don't mean be older for longer. I mean,
be healthier in your eighties and nineties. Like my dad, who's turning 82,
who's got the physic and mental aptitude of a,
probably a 30 year old he's stronger than me. So you want that? Okay.
So what you have to do, well, you have to start early.
You can't just start when you're 80, although it helps, but it's not the best.
Do you want to just get out of the chair? People say walk,
but I think it's better to lose your breath, become hypoxic, hypoxia, chambers,
or hyperbaric chambers. These stress, the body a little bit.
So run for 10 minutes a few times a week. That's what I do. Um,
and you don't have to run for hours. It's just 10 minutes is enough go biking.
So it's a fact that people who regularly ride bikes and I think it
was something like up to 80 miles a week,
but they would have a 40% less chance of having a heart attack than someone who
didn't do that. So it's a massive change,
not just a little thing at the margins, massive changes.
The other thing is which I do, uh, is to skip meals. So it's not that hard. I,
I now feel, wait if I eat a meal for breakfast or lunch,
and I try not to snack to this, this idea of nutritionists three meals a day,
plus snacks never be hungry, is killing us. It really is.
And we know that if you do these things to animals in controlled settings,
they live longer, a lot longer, 20,
sometimes 30% because they're healthier for longer.
They don't get cancer and heart disease and dementia.
So I don't know why we don't all do that.
I just think we just like to sit around and eat earth Watson.
It's good. It feels good. Just eat chips. Yeah. But M and.
M just.
Feels good. Oh, for sure. Yeah. But is there like, so when you talk about,
um, how eating one meal a day can extend your life,
is it because when you're eating all the time,
you're taxing your digestive system, which taxes your resources,
or is there some sort of a mechanism that leads to
decay of the human body from over-consumption? Like, what is it?
Yeah.
So over consumption or just consumption in general makes your body complacent.
And we know this in great detail at the molecular level,
there are genes that respond to how much you're eating and what you're eating
and why they're exercising.
And these are called longevity genes and they give our body resilience and fight
aging and slow down what we can now measure the biological clock.
So I can take your blood.
Or actually now we've developed a very cheap test as a swab,
to be able to tell you very accurately how old you are,
not based on how many times the earth goes around the sun. That's ridiculous.
Age is just a number. You can actually take a swab. I can tell you how you are,
how old you are really, but then using real science,
tell you how to slow that down.
And this is really cool just in the last few years,
we figured out you can reverse human aging as well.
New episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the Geri on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan expense.